Document how the dashboard scoring works (#667)
web-platform-tests/interop-2022: dashboard.md

- [`interop-data.json`](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt.fyi/blob/main/webapp/static/interop-data.json) provides human readable names for the focus area identifiers, such as "Layout" for `interop-2024-layout`. This file also includes investigation efforts. The same data is available in [`interop-data.js`](https://wpt.fyi/components/interop-data.js).

## Focus Area Scoring

Scores for each focus area are computed in [results-analysis](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis) and published as CSV ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/gh-pages/data/interop-2024/interop-2024-experimental-v2.csv)) to GitHub pages. The CSV data and `interop-data.js` is fetched by the wpt.fyi frontend to populate the scores. 

## End-to-End Pipeline

The pipeline for updating scores is as follows:

- All of WPT is run on Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari across two different CI systems: Taskcluster and Azure Pipelines. The cadence varies:

>   - Chrome Canary: [every commit](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L188-L193)

Reviewer: Do we have something to link to about how the epochs branches work or how to examine their history? At the least a link to the current state of each relevant branch would probably help.

Author: The entrypoint for all of that is https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/epochs/three_hourly/.github/workflows/epochs.yml and https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/tree/epochs/three_hourly the most used of the branches. There are also tags on the pattern epochs/three_hourly/* which was the topic of https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/117.

  - Chrome Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L206-L211)
  - Edge Dev: [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L380)
  - Edge Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L344)
  - Firefox Nightly: [every commit](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L163-L168)
  - Firefox Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L175-L180)
  - Safari Technology Preview: [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L491)
  - Safari Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L451)

>   Runs take 1-3 hours to complete. Results are uploaded to wpt.fyi and are made available within minutes of completion.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like results are pushed to wpt.fyi by the CI, but I think it's actually something pull-based on the wpt.fyi side?

Author: There's some variation between CI systems here.

- There is an API to upload results directly with a username and password, which is used by Deno, Chromium's CI, and probably others.
- For Azure Pipelines there's a [webhook invoked in the CI job](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/tools/ci/azure/fyi_hook.yml) which causes wpt.fyi to download the results from an artifacts API.
- For Taskcluster https://wpt.fyi/api/webhook/taskcluster is invoked as a GitHub webhook, and wpt.fyi has some logic to figure out if all the tasks have finished or not.

The webhook model means that wpt.fyi has knowledge of the CI systems, but has the benefit that no secret is needed, since wpt.fyi doesn't need to trust anything in the webhook, it's just a ping to check for results.

> # Interop Dashboard

Reviewer 2: Do we want to call this `interop-dashboard.md` to make it clear, given other metrics are within the scope of the Interop team?

Our dashboard is available at https://wpt.fyi/interop.

This document explains how tests are run and how score are computed. There are several layers of async operations with varying amounts of delay, so this might also serve as a guide to identify where the problem is if the dashboard is not being updated.

## Focus Area Definitions

The focus areas are defined by the combination of three data sources:

- [wpt-metadata](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-metadata) labels specific tests with labels like `interop-2022-subgrid`. These labels are added manually after review of the test lists. The easiest way to enumerate all labeled tests is through the [wpt.fyi API](https://wpt.fyi/api/metadata?includeTestLevel=true&product=chrome).
- [`category-data.json`](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/blob/main/interop-scoring/category-data.json) defines the focus areas for each year as an identifier like `interop-2024-layout` and a set of labels like `interop-2021-flexbox`, `interop-2022-subgrid`, etc.

> - [`interop-data.json`](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt.fyi/blob/main/webapp/static/interop-data.json) provides human readable names for the focus area identifiers, such as "Layout" for `interop-2024-layout`. This file also includes investigation efforts. The same data is available in [`interop-data.js`](https://wpt.fyi/components/interop-data.js).

Reviewer 2: It's also where `countsTowardScore` is defined.

## Focus Area Scoring

> Scores for each focus area are computed in [results-analysis](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis) and published as CSV ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/gh-pages/data/interop-2024/interop-2024-experimental-v2.csv)) to GitHub pages. The CSV data and `interop-data.js` is fetched by the wpt.fyi frontend to populate the scores. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scores for each focus area are computed in [results-analysis](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis) and published as CSV ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/gh-pages/data/interop-2024/interop-2024-experimental-v2.csv)) to GitHub Pages. The CSV data and `interop-data.js` is fetched by the wpt.fyi frontend to populate the scores. 
```

## End-to-End Pipeline

The pipeline for updating scores is as follows:

> - All of WPT is run on Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari across two different CI systems: Taskcluster and Azure Pipelines. The cadence varies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All of WPT is run on Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari across three different CI systems: Taskcluster, Azure Pipelines, and GitHub Actions. The cadence varies:
```

  - Chrome Canary: [every commit](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L188-L193)
  - Chrome Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L206-L211)
  - Edge Dev: [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L380)
  - Edge Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L344)
  - Firefox Nightly: [every commit](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L163-L168)
  - Firefox Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/tools/ci/tc/tasks/test.yml#L175-L180)
  - Safari Technology Preview: [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L491)

>   - Safari Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L451)

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/commit/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0 is over two years old — why are we linking to that commit?

>   - Safari Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L451)

Reviewer 2: Safari hasn't run on Azure pipelines in a year and a half: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/commit/8870a21ba493d7f736e53042272f0e48a88ffd78.

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/ec31a461d352a7a67ae972b347aea77d5ca9160b/.github/workflows/safari_technology_preview.yml#L24 and https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/ec31a461d352a7a67ae972b347aea77d5ca9160b/.github/workflows/safari_stable.yml#L24 are the relevant links now.

  The 3 hourly and daily cadences are implemented using "epoch" branches which

>   are updated by a [GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/.github/workflows/epochs.yml).

Reviewer 2: Why is this `master` when many other links are to specific commits?

>   Runs take 1-3 hours to complete. Webhooks notify wpt.fyi of the results, which downloads them and makes them available within minutes of completion. (Some CI setups instead use a results upload API, but not those discussed here.)

Reviewer 2: Only TC uses a webhook (see https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/settings/hooks, though I realise most people can't see that).

Azure Pipelines just sends a very simple request to wpt.fyi: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/tools/ci/azure/fyi_hook.yml

As does GitHub Actions: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/.github/workflows/wpt_fyi_notify.yml

The time it takes wpt.fyi to ingest results is also relatively variable; I don't know if we have good data on that anywhere?

  Delay: 1-6 hours for experimental, 1-27 hours for stable

- [results-analysis-cache](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis-cache) downloads all runs from wpt.fyi and coverts them into a more efficient format to speed up results scoring. This runs [hourly](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis-cache/blob/683fe10f5f58c096e2a0dc3214c53ce949192c39/.github/workflows/results.yml#L7-L9) and takes less than 10 minutes.

  Delay: 10-70 minutes

> - [results-analysis](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis) fetches results from `results-analysis-cache` and produces the CSV files used by the dashboard. This runs [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/blob/67c603a9b306c71da37c4798301935318949c45e/.github/workflows/update_gh_pages.yml#L7-L9) and takes a few minutes.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/blob/da8fe496b093e0c81cd66274594e2febe6b515fe/build.sh#L20 starts off by running the `git-write.js` script to update the `results-analysis-cache`, which means the frequency of the cache job doesn't actually matter.

  - Safari Stable: [daily](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/6f491c45bc5182275419be89a0820c2deaddc6b0/.azure-pipelines.yml#L451)

  Runs take 1-3 hours to complete. Results are uploaded to wpt.fyi and are made available within minutes of completion.

  Delay: 1-6 hours for experimental, 1-27 hours for stable

- [results-analysis-cache](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis-cache) downloads all runs from wpt.fyi and coverts them into a more efficient format to speed up results scoring. This runs [hourly](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis-cache/blob/683fe10f5f58c096e2a0dc3214c53ce949192c39/.github/workflows/results.yml#L7-L9) and takes less than 10 minutes.

  Delay: 10-70 minutes

- [results-analysis](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis) fetches results from `results-analysis-cache` and produces the CSV files used by the dashboard. This runs [every 3 hours](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/blob/67c603a9b306c71da37c4798301935318949c45e/.github/workflows/update_gh_pages.yml#L7-L9) and takes a few minutes.

>   Delay: 0-3 hours

Reviewer: An obvious question if this only takes ~10 minutes is why not run it much more frequently, like every 30 minutes.

Author: I think I made some effort originally to align the timing so that it would run after results from three_hourly branches are available, based on the typical delay at the time. Running it more often is only helpful if we do something with non-aligned runs.

Author: I didn't make any update here, I filed https://github.com/web-platform-tests/results-analysis/issues/227 instead.
